At 10-15 hrs/weekGet access to classroom immediately on enrollmentLearn cutting-edge computer vision and deep learning techniques—from basic image processing, to building and customizing convolutional neural networks. Apply these concepts to vision tasks such as automatic image captioning and object tracking, and build a robust portfolio of computer vision projects.Work on a variety of computer vision and deep learning applications from basic image processing to automatic image captioning.3 Months to completeThis program requires experience with Python, statistics, machine learning, and deep learning. See detailed requirements.Master computer vision and image processing essentials. Learn to extract important features from image data, and apply deep learning techniques to classification tasks.Learn to apply deep learning architectures to computer vision tasks. Discover how to combine CNN and RNN networks to build an automatic image captioning application.Learn how to locate an object and track it over time. These techniques are used in a variety of moving systems, such as self-driving car navigation and drone flight.Real-world projects from industry expertsTechnical mentor supportCareer servicesFlexible learning programInstructorAs the founder and president of Udacity, Sebastian’s mission is to democratize education. He is also the founder of Google X, where he led projects including the Self-Driving Car, Google Glass, and more.Curriculum LeadCezanne is an expert in computer vision with a Masters in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University. As a former researcher in genomics and biomedical imaging, she’s applied computer vision and deep learning to medical diagnostic applications.Curriculum LeadAlexis is an applied mathematician with a Masters in Computer Science from Brown University and a Masters in Applied Mathematics from the University of Michigan. She was formerly a National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellow.Content DeveloperJuan is a computational physicist with a Masters in Astronomy. He is finishing his PhD in Biophysics. He previously worked at NASA developing space instruments and writing software to analyze large amounts of scientific data using machine learning techniques.InstructorJay has a degree in computer science, loves visualizing machine learning concepts, and is the Investment Principal at STV, a $500 million venture capital fund focused on high-technology startups.Curriculum LeadOrtal Arel has a PhD in Computer Engineering, and has been a professor and researcher in the field of applied cryptography. She has worked on design and analysis of intelligent algorithms for high-speed custom digital architectures.InstructorLuis was formerly a Machine Learning Engineer at Google. He holds a PhD in mathematics from the University of Michigan, and a Postdoctoral Fellowship at the University of Quebec at Montreal.                                                 Pay as you go
  
  
  per 

    /
  
    /
  Pay upfront and save an extra 0%
   
  
  
  
  
  for - access
Deep learning is driving advances in artificial intelligence that are changing our world. Enroll now to build and apply your own deep neural networks to produce amazing solutions to important challenges.IntermediateLearn the skills to get computers to understand, process, and respond to human language. Build models on real data, and get hands-on experience with sentiment analysis, machine translation, and more.Advanced"Nanodegree" is a registered trademark of Udacity. © 2011–2022 Udacity, Inc.Udacity is not an accredited university and we don't confer traditional degrees. Udacity Nanodegree programs represent collaborations with our industry partners who help us develop our content and who hire many of our program graduates. © 2011–2022 Udacity, Inc. 