Home > Learning Center > AppSec > Cyber Security Just like physical security is aimed at protecting physical property and people from criminal activity or accidental damage, cybersecurity protects computer systems, back-end systems and end-user applications, the users of those systems, and the data they store.Cyber security is aimed at preventing cybercriminals, malicious insiders, or others, from accessing, harming, disrupting or modifying IT systems and applications.As human society goes digital, all aspects of our lives are facilitated by networks, computer and other electronic devices, and software applications. Critical infrastructure including healthcare, financial institutions, governments, and manufacturing, all use computers or smart devices as a core part of their operations. A vast majority of those devices are connected to the Internet.Threat actors have a greater incentive than ever to find ways to infiltrate those computer systems, for financial gain, extortion, political or social motives (known as hacktivism), or just vandalism.Over the past two decades, cyber attacks were launched against critical infrastructure in all developed nations, and countless businesses suffered catastrophic losses. There are over 2,000 confirmed data breaches globally each year, with each breach costing over $3.9 million on average ($8.1 million in the USA). Since the year 2000, over 3.5 billion people, half the world’s population, have had their private information stolen by cyber criminals.In the vast majority of these systems, websites and web applications are a gateway for attackers. They are exposed to the public Internet, and commonly connected to sensitive back-end systems, representing a weak link in the organization’s security strategyWhether your organization is a business of any size, a website receiving substantial traffic, or an institution or non-profit organization serving the public interest, preparing and defending against cyber security threats should be one of your foremost concerns.The primary objective of cyber security is to protect data. The security community commonly refers to a triangle of three related principles that ensure data is secure, known as the CIA triad:The CIA Triad defines three key principles of data securityTo achieve the CIA objectives organizations must protect two aspects or their IT environment: application security and data security.Application security ensures user-facing applications are protected from penetration or disruption by external threats, attacks on the devices that host or use the application (endpoints), and insider threats. Below are three of the most common application security strategies.DDoS protectionA Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attack uses a large number of connected devices controlled by an attacker, to overwhelm a website’s resources with fake traffic. Because of the massive scale of today’s DDoS attacks, a common protective measure is a cloud-based DDoS mitigation service. These services use either DNS or BGP routing to divert traffic to cloud-based scrubbing servers, dropping malicious requests and forwarding legitimate ones to the web server.Web Application FirewallA web application firewall (WAF) is deployed on the network edge as a reverse proxy, inspects incoming and outbound HTTP/S traffic to a web application, and filters out malicious traffic. A WAF uses security policies, and threat intelligence data such as known bad traffic sources and known attack patterns, to determine which traffic should not reach the application.Advanced Bot Protection
Bots are automated programs that perform actions over the Internet. Some bots are legitimate and should be allowed access to a website, while others are malicious and can be used to launch automated attacks. Bot management is a rapidly evolving field that protects organizations from bad bots using bot reputation databases, challenges that test whether a bot is a real user or not, and behavioral analysis that identifies suspicious bot behavior.Data security ensures data cannot be accessed by external parties or unauthorized internal parties, identifying risks to sensitive data and addressing them, and setting up detection methods to identify when data is accessed, modified or deleted by threat actors. Below are three common strategies for data security.Data MaskingMany data breaches occur not in production environments, but on testing or DevOps environments. These environments are often not secured, but are commonly loaded with live, sensitive customer data. Data masking makes it possible to use realistic data on testing servers, while using transformation techniques to hide or scramble the original data.Vulnerability DiscoveryMany software systems have known vulnerabilities, which can be exploited by hackers to compromise the system. Vulnerability discovery is a process that relies on vulnerability databases, which contain details about known vulnerabilities. It allows an organization to detect which systems are affected by vulnerabilities, understand severity and impact, and remediate the vulnerabilities.Endpoint SecurityThe number of endpoint devices at organizations is exploding. There are millions of laptops, mobile devices, and Internet of Things (IoT devices), which connect to the Internet and represent a growing security risk.Endpoint security involves deploying an agent on each endpoint, which can provide security capabilities like Next-Generation Antivirus (NGAV), to detect zero day attacks and inside threats, and Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR), to help security teams investigate and block attacks on endpoints in real time.The cyber security landscape is complex, with millions of known threat actors and documented Tactics, Techniques and Procedures (TTP), and new types of attacks emerging every day. Here are a few of the more common cyber threats you may be exposed to:Addressing the cyber security problem in your organization starts from a strategy, which should be supported by senior management and shared with the entire organization.Here is a process you can use to build your security strategy:See how Imperva Application Security can help you with your cyber security strategy.The following are important trends in the cyber security community which you should be aware of, as you develop your strategy and select your toolset.In the past, cyber security systems relied on manually defined rules and human inspection to identify and classify security incidents. This was effective but limited, because it required a high level of expertise to manage security tools, and overloaded security staff.Many modern security tools use machine techniques to automate security decision making, without requiring rules to be defined in advance. This can save a lot of time for security teams and result in a faster and more accurate response to threats.A few examples of the use of machine learning in cyber security are:Imperva’s Machine Learning security solutions use contextual comparative analysis, based on machine learning, to identify anomalous or suspicious behavior, prioritize alerts and help security teams focus on real security incidents.Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) allow computing systems to communicate with each other and share data. An entire API economy has emerged that allows organizations to share data and software capabilities with each other.While APIs provide a lot of value to organizations, they also represent a security risk. There is limited awareness for the importance of API security, and many API endpoints lack basic security measures. They can be manipulated by attackers to abuse the service behind the API, and can also be an entry point to an organization’s critical systems.In the past few years, dedicated API security solutions are emerging that help organizations lock down API endpoints, protect them from malicious traffic, and defend against DDoS attacks. The OpenAPI initiative helps organizations define their APIs in a standardized way, making it possible to enforce a security policy built around API capabilities.Imperva API Security protects APIs by ensuring only desired traffic can access your API endpoint, as well as detecting and blocking exploits of vulnerabilities. Based on the OpenAPI initiative, Imperva offers a maintenance-free API protection solution that automatically adapts to changes in API specifications.Bots are systems that access websites and perform automated actions. Some bots are legitimate, for example, the Googlebot crawls websites in order to add them to Google’s search index. But other bots are malicious, used by threat actors to launch attacks against millions of vulnerable websites.Bots account for 58% of web traffic today, and a full 22% of web traffic is attributed to bad bots. Bad bots can be installed on end-user devices compromised by attackers, forming massive botnets. These devices might be home computers, servers, and IoT devices such as game consoles or smart TVs. Attackers leverage networks of compromised devices to launch DDoS and many other types of attacks.Bot management systems help organizations identify unwanted bot traffic and filter it out, while allowing legitimate bot traffic and user traffic to continue uninterrupted. To do this, they need to identify bad bots, using a variety of methods like:Imperva’s Advanced Bot Protection analyzes your bot traffic to pinpoint anomalies, identifies bad bot behavior and validates it via challenge mechanisms that do not impact user traffic or good bots. Reputation management also allows you to filter out unwanted traffic based on sources, geographies, patterns, or IP blacklists.File security is critical to ensure sensitive data has not been accessed or tampered with by unauthorized parties, whether internal or external. Many compliance standards require that organizations put in place strict control over sensitive data files, demonstrate that those controls are in place, and show an audit trail of file activity in case of a breach.File security technology can automatically identify suspicious file activity, which may represent an attempt at data exfiltration, a ransomware attack, or even a careless user deleting files by mistake or copying them to an insecure location.Imperva’s File Security continuously monitors all user access to enterprise file storage systems and keeps a detailed record of all file access activity, including privileged users.Historically, many organizations adopted Application Security Testing (AST) tools that automatically scanned application code for code quality issues and software vulnerabilities. Today, many organizations are shifting to Runtime Application Self-Protection (RASP), which scans and monitors application code in real time, when it is running in production.RASP is deployed together with a web application. It monitors traffic and user behavior, and if it detects an issue, it can block specific user requests and alert security staff. RASP does not rely on specific attack signatures, and is able to block entire categories of attacks.The unique element of RASP is that it leverages inside knowledge of an application’s source code. It knows how an application behaves and can detect attacks that leverage weaknesses in the code, like code injection and exploits of known vulnerabilities.Once you’re ready to deploy your applications, Imperva RASP is here to keep them protected and give you essential feedback for eliminating any additional risks. It requires no changes to code and integrates easily with existing applications and DevOps processes, protecting you from both known and zero-day attacks.As organizations undergo digital transformation and move mission-critical workloads to the cloud, cloud security becomes an essential part of a cyber security strategy. Securing the cloud is a challenge, because cloud-based systems do not have a traditional security perimeter, and can provide attackers access to almost every aspect of the IT environment.Organizations must understand the division of responsibility between themselves and their cloud provider, and correctly configure security features offered by the cloud provider, in particular network isolation features like Virtual Private Cloud (VPC). They must also have a robust Identity and Access Management (IAM) solution – a way to define user accounts, roles and access control policies.When deploying hybrid cloud or multi-cloud infrastructure, which connects between private and public clouds or multiple public clouds, organizations must ensure security is consistent across all their cloud environments, and pay special attention to integration points.Imperva’s Cloud Security secures private, public, and multi cloud environments. It provides a complete solution stack that protects your applications, APIs, and databases, with one point of control and one pane of glass for application and data security. Imperva security solutions are delivered as a service or as self-managed VMs.Organizations collect a huge volume of logs and events from IT systems and security tools. It is now common, even in small to medium organizations, to use Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) to aggregate security data and create alerts for security teams.The sheer number of alerts, together with the chronic shortage of security staff at many organizations, results in alert fatigue. Security teams receive thousands of alerts at all hours of the day, making it difficult to sift through the alerts and identify real security incidents.The problem is not new and there are several approaches to mitigating alert fatigue. For example, organizations implement threat intelligence to identify when an alert correlates with a signature or attack pattern of a known attacker. Machine learning approaches like User and Event Behavioral Analytics (UEBA) help identify unusual behavior, and automatically score it to identify events that are more likely to be malicious.Imperva’s Attack Analytics uses AI and machine learning technology to look across the stream of security events and prioritize the ones that matter most. It also provides easy integration with leading SIEM platforms, to simplify analysis of security data and extraction of actionable insights for security teams. Erez Hasson,  Bruce LynchNov 22, 2021  2 min read Erez Hasson,  Bruce LynchNov 18, 2021  2 min read Pamela WeaverNov 17, 2021  1 min read Bruce LynchNov 16, 2021  5 min read Pamela WeaverNov 11, 2021  3 min read Eyal GurNov 8, 2021  3 min read Erez HassonNov 3, 2021  3 min read Yohann Sillam,  Ron MasasOct 13, 2021  4 min read408.3k Views378k Views294.8k Views275.1k Views262.2k Views228.2k Views191.8k Views182.5k ViewsCookie Preferences Trust Center Modern Slavery Statement Privacy LegalCookie Preferences Trust Center Modern Slavery Statement Privacy LegalCopyright © 2021 Imperva. All rights reservedProtection against zero-day attacksNo tuning, highly-accurate out-of-the-boxEffective against OWASP top 10 vulnerabilitiesAn Imperva security specialist will contact you shortly.Top 3 US Retailer