
IT risk management is the application of the principles of risk management to an IT organization in order to manage the risks associated with the field. IT risk management aims to manage the risks that come with the ownership, involvement, operation, influence, adoption and use of IT as part of a...
View Full Term
Trending TermsTechopedia TermsSubscribe To Our NewslettersBy clicking sign up, you agree to receive emails from Techopedia and agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.Natural language processing (NLP) is the ability of a computer program to understand spoken and written human language.NLP programming automates the translation process between computers and humans by manipulating unstructured data (words) in the context of a specific task (conversation). An important goal of NLP is to help the computer to comprehend the intent -- as well as the meaning -- of a human being's written or spoken words.NLP is an interdisciplinary field that spans across across several areas of study, including linguistics, computer science, statistics and artificial intelligence. It plays an important role in helping natural language generation (NLG) chatbot programs respond appropriately to spoken or written communication and translate text from one language to another.Recent advancements in deep learning and artificial intelligence (AI) have had a significant positive impact on natural language processing.The ultimate goal of NLP is to build software that will analyze, understand and generate human languages naturally, enabling communication with a computer as if it were a human. There is difficulty in developing human language translation software because language and the way words are used in different contexts is constantly changing. Share this TermTech moves fast! Stay ahead of the curve with Techopedia!
Join nearly 200,000 subscribers who receive actionable tech insights from Techopedia.
Latest Articles

By: Leah Zitter
| Contributor



By: Antonio Vargas
| Manager of Solutions Engineering, BitTitan 



By: Margaret Rouse



By: Margaret Rouse


Techopedia™ is your go-to tech source for professional IT insight and inspiration.
We aim to be a site that isn't trying to be the first to break news stories,
but instead help you better understand technology and — we hope — make better decisions as a result.

Copyright © 2022
Techopedia Inc. -
Terms of Use -
Privacy Policy -
Editorial Review Policy

Cookie Settings
By clicking sign up, you agree to receive emails from Techopedia and agree to our Terms of Use & Privacy Policy. Techopedia is a part of Janalta Interactive.