Supervised machine learning algorithms uncover insights, patterns, and relationships from a labeled training dataset – that is, a dataset that already contains a known value for the target variable for each record. Because you provide the machine learning algorithm with the correct answers for a problem during training, the algorithm is able to “learn” how the rest of the features relate to the target, enabling you to uncover insights and make predictions about future outcomes based on historical data.Supervised machine learning turns data into real, actionable insights. It enables organizations to use data to understand and prevent unwanted outcomes or boost desired outcomes for their target variable.Supervised machine learning is one of the most powerful engines that enable AI systems to make business decisions faster and more accurately than humans. Businesses across industries use it to solve problems such as:However, successfully building, scaling, and deploying accurate supervised machine learning models has historically required extensive time and technical expertise from a team of highly skilled, expensive data scientists. Additionally, data science teams must periodically rebuild models in order to make sure the insights they provide remain true to life as the input data changes.DataRobot’s diverse library of machine learning algorithms and unique model blueprint technology incorporates supervised machine learning algorithms such as bagging, boosting, deep learning, frequency-severity methods, generalized additive models, generalized linear models, kernel-based methods, random forests, and many others. Additionally, DataRobot’s team of experienced data scientists is constantly researching, developing, and testing new open-source algorithms, ensuring the platform incorporates the most state-of-the-art supervised machine learning models.{"@context":"https://schema.org","@type":"FAQPage","mainEntity":[{"@type":"Question","name":"What is supervised machine learning?","acceptedAnswer":{"@type":"Answer","text":"Supervised machine learning algorithms uncover insights, patterns, and relationships from a labeled training dataset."}}]}Subscribe to More Intelligent TomorrowInsights on the future brought to you by DataRobotThe Gartner Peer Insights Customers’ Choice badge is a trademark and service mark of Gartner, Inc., and/or its affiliates, and is used herein with permission. All rights reserved. Gartner Peer Insights Customers’ Choice constitute the subjective opinions of individual end-user reviews, ratings, and data applied against a documented methodology; they neither represent the views of, nor constitute an endorsement by, Gartner or its affiliates.Subscribe to More Intelligent TomorrowInsights on the future brought to you by DataRobotWe will contact you shortlyWe’re almost there! These are the next steps:
	Didn’t receive the email? Please make sure to check your spam or junk folders.
