Follow Us
                    Epaper
                Login   /  Register 
                        A
                         -
                    
                        A
                         +
                    
                
            
                                    A
                                    -
                                
                                    A
                                    +
                                
                            Updated At:

                            
                                Jan 06, 2022
                            
                            
                            09:30 AM (IST)
                         Photo for representational purpose only.


    
        
    
Dushyant Singh PundirTribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 5The UT Administration has fast-tracked the process of establishing a cyber security centre in the city to deal with the ever-growing cases of cybercrime.All aspects of the proposed centre were discussed in detail during a meeting with senior officials of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and the Chandigarh Police here yesterday, said UT Adviser Dharam Pal. It was decided to prepare a proposal for setting up the centre and send it to the MHA for approval at the earliest, he added.As cyber criminals are on the prowl, the city has witnessed a steep increase in such cases in the past few years. In 2017, the police had received 2,242 complaints and the number swelled to 3,167 in 2018 and further rose to 4,793 in 2019. Nearly 6,300 complaints of cybercrime were received in 2020, while 3,306 complaints had been filed till July 18 last year.“Cyber security will be one of the main challenges in the coming years and we want to lead the way in the region in meeting the new-age challenges,” said the Adviser. Apart from research and analysis work, strategies would also be a device in anticipation of future challenges, he said, adding that the centre was most likely to be established within this year under the supervision of the police.Earlier, officials of the DRDO gave a presentation on the prospects of drone attacks and how to deal with these even though the city has no specific threat from drones. The UT Adviser said anti-drone technology would also be part of the proposed centre. Over security threats and the possibility of misuse of drones by anti-social elements, the UT Administration had recently banned flying of drones and low-flying objects in the city.On naming of the centre, UT Director General of Police Praveer Ranjan said it was most likely to be named as Centre for Cyber Security Operation.Recently, the Chandigarh Police had set up cyber desks at all police stations to lessen the burden on the Cyber Crime Investigation Cell, which is unable to focus on special cases. Several categories of cybercrime have been defined, which will be dealt by the police stations.Cyber criminals on the prowlAs cyber criminals are on the prowl, the city has witnessed an increase in cases. In 2017, 2,242 complaints were received and the number swelled to 3,167 in 2018 and rose to 4,793 in 2019. Nearly 6,300 complaints were received in 2020 and 3,306 till July 18 last year.Tribune Shorts
                                    A
                                    -
                                
                                    A
                                    +
                                
                    What do you think? (Share your feedback)
                Most ReadDon't Miss
            SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
        
                                


    
        'Security breach': PM briefs President; Minister says MHA will take 'tough decisions'
    

                            Modi’s convoy was stranded on a flyover due to blockade by f...
                                


    
        Home Ministry constitutes 3-member panel to probe PM's 'security breach'
    

                            Prime Minister’s cavalcade was stranded on a flyover due to ...
                                


    
            
        Punjab too forms high-level committee to probe lapses during PM's visit
    

                            The committee will comprise Justice Mehtab Singh Gill (retd)...
                                


    
            
        PM Modi's 'life threat gimmick' aimed at toppling democratically elected Punjab Govt: CM Channi
    

                            Chief Minister Channi was addressing a gathering at Tanda af...
                                


    
            
        SSP told us PM Modi would be coming by road but we took it as bluff: BKU-Krantikari chief Surjeet Phul
    

                            Some farmer bodies had earlier announced to oppose Modi’s vi...View All
                            


    
        High drama at Amritsar airport after 125 passengers of Italy-Amritsar flight test positive for Covid
    

                        
                            


    
        DC, 105 others test positive in Amritsar district
    

                        
                            


    
        Amritsar: Shutdown orders hit school transporters, gym trainers hard
    

                        
                            


    
        Amritsar: Waste segregation kicks off in walled city
    

                        
                            


    
        Amritsar district admn all set for Assembly elections
    

                        
                            


    
        BJP buses in Bathinda return empty
    

                        
                            


    
        Bathinda: Won't give up till cases withdrawn, say farmers
    

                        
                            


    
        FM Manpreet Singh Badal reviews status of Bathinda project
    

                        
                            


    
        Teachers stage protest in Bathinda
    

                        
                            


    
        Chandigarh imposes night curfew from 10 pm to 5 am due to rising Covid-19 cases
    

                        
                            


    
        Chandigarh records 331 new Covid-19 cases
    

                        
                            


    
        Chandigarh logs 229 Covid cases, sees 367% spike in five days
    

                        
                            


    
        Covid: Is it community transmission?
    

                        
                            


    
        292 more found infected in Mohali district
    

                        
                            


    
        Delhi sees over 15k cases; Health Minister Jain says no need for lockdown yet
    

                        
                            


    
        Delhi govt extends application deadline for private school nursery admissions
    

                        
                            


    
        Bulli Bai app: DU student arrested from Uttarakhand
    

                        
                            


    
        With 183 new cases, Jalandhar district records  highest single-day spike since June
    

                        
                            


    
        Rs 210 cr spent on roads, yet potholes & traffic snarls welcome you to 'smart city' Jalandhar
    

                        
                            


    
        Farmers burn PM Modi's effigy in Jalandhar, block roads to site of rally
    

                        
                            


    
        Ludhiana: 3 international travellers test positive for Omicron
    

                        
                            


    
        Ludhiana MC fails to shift stray cattle from city roads to shelters
    

                        
                            


    
        Provide appointment letters before imposition of poll code: Candidates to Punjab CM
    

                        
                            


    
        Covid norms: Ludhiana MC chief inspects offices
    

                        
                            


    
        120 children in 15-18 age group get jabbed
    

                        
                            


    
        Rise in Covid cases in dist alarming: Health officials
    

                        
                            


    
        NIS Patiala reports 4 COVID positive cases
    

                        
                            


    
        Two UK returnees test positive for Omicron in Patiala
    

                        
                            


    
        Most markets adhere to night curfew in Patiala
    

                        
                            


    
        Garden Natak Mela organised at Baradari Gardens, Patiala
    

                        The Tribune, now published from Chandigarh, started publication on February 2, 1881, in Lahore (now in Pakistan). It was started by Sardar Dyal Singh Majithia, a public-spirited philanthropist, and is run by a trust comprising four eminent persons as trustees.The Tribune, the largest selling English daily in North India, publishes news and views without any bias or prejudice of any kind. Restraint and moderation, rather than agitational language and partisanship, are the hallmarks of the paper. It is an independent newspaper in the real sense of the term.The Tribune has two sister publications, Punjabi Tribune (in Punjabi) and Dainik Tribune (in Hindi).
    Remembering Sardar Dyal Singh Majithia

                            Designed and Developed by: Grazitti Interactive
                        