Financial aid availableOffered ByThis course gives you the background needed to understand basic Cybersecurity.  You will learn the history of Cybersecurity, types and motives of cyber attacks to further your knowledge of current threats to organizations and individuals.  Key terminology, basic system concepts and tools will be examined as an introduction to the Cybersecurity field.You will learn about critical thinking and its importance to anyone looking to pursue a career in Cybersecurity.

Finally, you will begin to learn about organizations and resources to further research cybersecurity issues in the Modern era.

This course is intended for anyone who wants to gain a basic understanding of Cybersecurity or as the first course in a series of courses to acquire the skills to work in the Cybersecurity field as a Jr Cybersecurity Analyst.

The completion of this course also makes you eligible to earn the Introduction to Cybersecurity Tools & Cyber Attacks IBM digital badge.  More information about the badge can be found https://www.youracclaim.com/org/ibm/badge/introduction-to-cybersecurity-tools-cyber-attacksDiscuss the evolution of security based on historical events.  List various types of malicious software.  Describe key cybersecurity concepts including the CIA Triad, access management, incident response and common cybersecurity best practices.  Identify key cybersecurity tools which include the following:  firewall, anti-virus, cryptography, penetration testing and digital forensics.    IBM is the global leader in business transformation through an open hybrid cloud platform and AI, serving clients in more than 170 countries around the world. Today 47 of the Fortune 50 Companies rely on the IBM Cloud to run their business, and IBM Watson enterprise AI is hard at work in more than 30,000 engagements. IBM is also one of the world’s most vital corporate research organizations, with 28 consecutive years of patent leadership. Above all, guided by principles for trust and transparency and support for a more inclusive society, IBM is committed to being a responsible technology innovator and a force for good in the world. For more information about IBM visit: www.ibm.comThis module will give you a brief overview of the history of cybersecurity. You will also learn key terms and roles in cybersecurity.This module will provide you with a brief overview of types of actors and their motives.  You will also understand different types of attacks and their impact on an organization and individuals. You will also learn about tools that are available to you to assist in any cybersecurity investigation.This module will describe various key security concepts that are important in any cybersecurity position.  The CIA Triad will be further explained.  You will also begin to learn the significance of incident response and frameworks around cybersecurity.  Finally, you will get an overview of IT Governance best practices and compliance.In this module, you will be introduced to key security tools including firewalls, anti-virus and cryptography.  You will explore penetration testing and digital forensics. You will learn where you can get resources on industry and current threats to assist in further research around cybersecurity.The reading link to Week 03's Framework and their purpose is Broken. Please Fix it. Everything else seemed perfect. I would recommend this course for people who think of starting their careers in CyS.If you want to learn cybersecurity and you have no idea about that. Then this is the best course which covers all the basic topics and provide you a best knowledge about cybersecurity and their tools.Great introductory course. The mobile app makes it easy to learn on the go at your own pace. Some of the audio is a bit patchy at times, but the ability to review the transcript helps make up for it.I appreciate the chance to learn fundamentals of cyber security with you. The vast number of topics made it pretty interesting for me and I couldn't wait to learn more.\n\nSincerely, Sadra ZargarWhen will I have access to the lectures and assignments?Access to lectures and assignments depends on your type of enrollment. If you take a course in audit mode, you will be able to see most course materials for free. To access graded assignments and to earn a Certificate, you will need to purchase the Certificate experience, during or after your audit. If you don't see the audit option: What will I get if I subscribe to this Certificate?When you enroll in the course, you get access to all of the courses in the Certificate, and you earn a certificate when you complete the work. Your electronic Certificate will be added to your Accomplishments page - from there, you can print your Certificate or add it to your LinkedIn profile.  If you only want to read and view the course content, you can audit the course for free.How can you claim your badge?You will receive an email notification from Credly Acclaim with instructions for claiming the badge.  Upon accepting your badge, it will be necessary to create a user account on Acclaim, where you will have the ability to manage your badge(s), opt-in to other communications and features, as well as take advantage of features allowing you to share your badge to social media and other destinations.        More questions? Visit the Learner Help Center.