Financial aid availableOffered ByComputer Vision is one of the most exciting fields in Machine Learning and AI. It has applications in many industries, such as self-driving cars, robotics, augmented reality, and much more. In this beginner-friendly course, you will understand computer vision and learn about its various applications across many industries.As part of this course, you will utilize Python, Pillow, and OpenCV for basic image processing and perform image classification and object detection.

This is a hands-on course and involves several labs and exercises. Labs will combine Jupyter Labs and Computer Vision Learning Studio (CV Studio), a free learning tool for computer vision. CV Studio allows you to upload, train, and test your own custom image classifier and detection models.  At the end of the course, you will create your own computer vision web app and deploy it to the Cloud.

This course does not require any prior Machine Learning or Computer Vision experience. However, some knowledge of the Python programming language and high school math is necessary.IBM is the global leader in business transformation through an open hybrid cloud platform and AI, serving clients in more than 170 countries around the world. Today 47 of the Fortune 50 Companies rely on the IBM Cloud to run their business, and IBM Watson enterprise AI is hard at work in more than 30,000 engagements. IBM is also one of the world’s most vital corporate research organizations, with 28 consecutive years of patent leadership. Above all, guided by principles for trust and transparency and support for a more inclusive society, IBM is committed to being a responsible technology innovator and a force for good in the world. For more information about IBM visit: www.ibm.comIn this module, we will discuss the rapidly developing field of image processing. In addition to being the first step in Computer Vision, it has broad applications ranging anywhere from making your smartphone's image look crystal clear to helping doctors cure diseases.Image processing enhances images or extracts useful information from the image. In this module, we will learn the basics of image processing with  Python libraries OpenCV and Pillow.In this module, you will Learn About the different Machine learning classification Methods commonly used for Computer vision, including k nearest neighbours, Logistic regression, SoftMax Regression and  Support Vector Machines. Finally, you will learn about Image features.In this module, you will learn about Neural Networks, fully connected Neural Networks, and Convolutional Neural Network (CNN). You will learn about different components such as Layers and different types of activation functions such as ReLU. You also get to know the different CNN Architecture such as ResNet and LenNet. In this module, you will learn about object detection with different methods. The first approach is using the Haar Cascade classifier, the second one is to use R-CNN and MobileNet.In the final week of this course, you will build a computer vision app that you will deploy on the cloud through Code Engine. For the project, you will create a custom classifier, train it and test it on your own images.Thoroughly enjoyed this course. Learned about OpenCV a bit and added to my small knowledge of Python. The ability to know how to train Watson to do optical recognizition will be invaluable.This is one of the best course by IBM. I specifically enjoyed Computer Vision modelling and its related project and also enjoyed the way team put in effort for designing this course.This is one of the best course by IBM. I specifically enjoyed Computer Vision modelling and its related project and also enjoyed the way team put in effort for designing this course.Course is good but Watson service in IBM Cloud ran into issues repeatedly, Unfortunately! I hope IBM and community will be able to support and guide better. Thanks for the course.When will I have access to the lectures and assignments?Access to lectures and assignments depends on your type of enrollment. If you take a course in audit mode, you will be able to see most course materials for free. To access graded assignments and to earn a Certificate, you will need to purchase the Certificate experience, during or after your audit. If you don't see the audit option: What will I get if I subscribe to this Certificate?When you enroll in the course, you get access to all of the courses in the Certificate, and you earn a certificate when you complete the work. Your electronic Certificate will be added to your Accomplishments page - from there, you can print your Certificate or add it to your LinkedIn profile.  If you only want to read and view the course content, you can audit the course for free.What will I be able to do after completing this course?After completing this course you will be able to:●      explain what computer vision is and its applications●      understand the roles of Python, OpenCV and IBM Watson in computer vision●      classify images utilizing IBM Watson, Python, and OpenCV●      build and train custom image classifiers using Watson Visual Recognition API●      process images in Python using OpenCV●      create an interactive computer vision web application and deploy it to the cloud    Are there any software or hardware pre-requistes for this course?No specialized hardware or software is required to complete this course. You will perform all labs and projects in a cloud environment and work with Python in Jupyter Notebooks, OpenCV, and IBM Watson Visual Recognition. Instructions for no-charge access to IBM Cloud is provided. You will require a modern web browser (i.e. recent versions of Chrome or Firefox).Are there any pre-requisties or prior experience necssary for this course?Some programming knowledge, especially with Python is needed to complete this course. The following course equips you with the necessary Python background: - Python for Data ScienceMore questions? Visit the Learner Help Center.