 Jump to navigationSpeak NowThe Chandigarh administration is set to establish a cyber security centre 'Centre for Cyber Security Operation (CenCOP)' next year to clamp down on the increasing cases of cybercrime in the city. The UT Administration has finalised a draft policy for setting up a cyber security centre in a bid to tackle the growing cases of online fraud and scams. The Chandigarh Police is the nodel agency that will run and operate the centre.The city has been seeing a spike in the cases of cyber crime. Last year, around 6,300 complaints were filed last year and this year till July, 3,306 cases of cybercrime were registered. The figure jumped from 2,242 in 2017 to 3,167 in 2018 and further swelled to 4,793, reported the Tribune.Recently, in a bid to ease the burden on the Cyber Crime Investigation Cell (CCIC), the city police set up cyber desks at all police stations. The police deal with several categories of cybercrime as CCIC is unable to focus on special cases.A meeting was chaired in which a decision to prepare a final draft proposal was taken for setting up the cyber security centre. The draft will be sent to the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) for approval. UT Adviser Dharam Pal told the Tribune that the administration has prepared an initial concept and more brainstorming needs to be done before giving a final shape to the model.With cyber security seen as one of the biggest challenges in the coming years, the draft policy has been finalised. Pal was quoted by the Hindustan Times (HT) as saying that they want to lead the region in dealing with cyber crimes and meeting new-age challenges."We will devise strategies in anticipation of future challenges and will also carry out the research and analysis work," he said.Discussions are also underway with stakeholders, engineering institutes, companies in setting up the centre. The department is being set up with the co-operation and assistance of Chandigarh police and the centre will be established under their supervision.ALSO READ| 'Bulli Bai' row: Activist files police complaint in Hyderabad against harassment of Muslim womenALSO READ| DCW summons Delhi Cyber Crime unit in 'Bulli Bai' case, seeks immediate arrest of culpritsClick here for IndiaToday.in’s complete coverage of the coronavirus pandemic. Paytm's D-Street debut disappoints as it lists at 9% discount India aims to become key semi-conductor manufacturer: PM Modi at Sydney Dialogue Moto G Power (2022) with Helio G37 SoC, 5000mAh battery launched: Price, specifications  Samantha is all set to become a bridal makeup artist PM Modi's Ferozepur rally cancelled after security breach Police make third arrest in Bulli Bai app case Amitabh Bachchan’s staff tests positive for Covid-19 How Do East Asians Define Beauty  Nothing says will accept crypto payments when Indian is ready | Talking Tech  Bihar DGP Makes Shocking Statement, Raises Eyebrows China unfurls flag in Galwan, Opposition slams BJP-led govt Delhi CM tests Covid positive, BJP questions ‘why he didn’t follow protocols’Copyright © 2022 Living Media India Limited. For reprint rights: Syndications TodayAdd IndiaToday to Home Screen