Cybersecurity is the protection of internet-connected systems such as hardware, software and data from cyberthreats. The practice is used by individuals and enterprises to protect against unauthorized access to data centers and other computerized systems.A strong cybersecurity strategy can provide a good security posture against malicious attacks designed to access, alter, delete, destroy or extort an organization's or user's systems and sensitive data. Cybersecurity is also instrumental in preventing attacks that aim to disable or disrupt a system's or device's operations.With an increasing number of users, devices and programs in the modern enterprise, combined with the increased deluge of data -- much of which is sensitive or confidential -- the importance of cybersecurity continues to grow. The growing volume and sophistication of cyber attackers and attack techniques compound the problem even further.The cybersecurity field can be broken down into several different sections, the coordination of which within the organization is crucial to the success of a cybersecurity program. These sections include the following:This article is part ofDownload this entire guide for FREE now!Maintaining cybersecurity in a constantly evolving threat landscape is a challenge for all organizations. Traditional reactive approaches, in which resources were put toward protecting systems against the biggest known threats, while lesser known threats were undefended, is no longer a sufficient tactic. To keep up with changing security risks, a more proactive and adaptive approach is necessary. Several key cybersecurity advisory organizations offer guidance. For example, the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) recommends adopting continuous monitoring and real-time assessments as part of a risk assessment framework to defend against known and unknown threats.The benefits of implementing and maintaining cybersecurity practices include:The process of keeping up with new technologies, security trends and threat intelligence is a challenging task. It is necessary in order to protect information and other assets from cyberthreats, which take many forms. Types of cyberthreats include:Other common attacks include botnets, drive-by-download attacks, exploit kits, malvertising, vishing, credential stuffing attacks, cross-site scripting (XSS) attacks, SQL injection attacks, business email compromise (BEC) and zero-day exploits.Cybersecurity is continually challenged by hackers, data loss, privacy, risk management and changing cybersecurity strategies. The number of cyberattacks is not expected to decrease in the near future. Moreover, increased entry points for attacks, such as with the arrival of the internet of things (IoT), increase the need to secure networks and devices.One of the most problematic elements of cybersecurity is the evolving nature of security risks. As new technologies emerge, and as technology is used in new or different ways, new attack avenues are developed. Keeping up with these frequent changes and advances in attacks, as well as updating practices to protect against them, can be challenging. Issues include ensuring all elements of cybersecurity are continually updated to protect against potential vulnerabilities. This can be especially difficult for smaller organizations without the staff or in-house resources.Additionally, organizations can gather a lot of potential data on individuals who use one or more of their services. With more data being collected, the likelihood of a cybercriminal who wants to steal personally identifiable information (PII) is another concern. For example, an organization that stores PII in the cloud may be subject to a ransomware attack. Organizations should do what they can to prevent a cloud breach.Cybersecurity programs should also address end-user education, as employees may accidently bring viruses into the workplace on their laptops or mobile devices. Regular security awareness training will help employees do their part in keeping their company safe from cyberthreats.Another challenge to cybersecurity includes a shortage of qualified cybersecurity personnel. As the amount of data collected and used by businesses grows, the need for cybersecurity staff to analyze, manage and respond to incidents also increases. (ISC)2 estimated the workplace gap between needed cybersecurity jobs and security professionals at 3.1 million.Automation has become an integral component to keep companies protected from the growing number and sophistication of cyberthreats. Using artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning in areas with high-volume data streams can help improve cybersecurity in three main categories:Other benefits of automation in cybersecurity include attack classification, malware classification, traffic analysis, compliance analysis and more.Vendors in the cybersecurity field typically offer a variety of security products and services. Common security tools and systems include:Well-known cybersecurity vendors include Check Point, Cisco, Code42, CrowdStrike, FireEye, Fortinet, IBM, Imperva, KnowBe4, McAfee, Microsoft, Palo Alto Networks, Rapid7, Splunk, Symantec, Trend Micro and Trustwave.As the cyberthreat landscape continues to grow and new threats emerge -- such as IoT threats -- individuals are needed with cybersecurity awareness and hardware and software skills.IT professionals and other computer specialists are needed in security roles, such as:Other cybersecurity careers include security consultants, data protection officer, cloud security architects, security operations manager (SOC) managers and analysts, security investigators, cryptographers and security administrators.Explore three major multi-tenancy security challenges and how to fix them, including lack of visibility, privilege overallocation...If your company is using a cloud database provider, it's critical to stay on top of security. Review the security features ...The cloud-native application protection platform, or CNAPP, is the latest in a slew of cloud security acronyms. Learn what it is ...Verizon plans to roll out its faster 5G Ultra Wideband service to 46 US cities later this month. But contentious negotiations ...When assisting home-based workers with their Wi-Fi woes, be sure to assess their internet connectivity and even consider ...Network security isn't a one-size-fits-all strategy. Dive into the various segments of network security, and learn how they ...Rather than feel the wave of top tech trends of 2022 wash over them, CIOs should focus on business goals to guide their emerging ...With the tech talent shortage in full force, IT talent development is critical for every organization. Learn the essentials of ...IT leaders who bypass strategy and go straight to selecting automation tools are courting failure. Here's how to move toward ...Apple macOS devices make up a significant portion of enterprise endpoints, and vendors such as Jamf offer tools to help ...After spinning off from LogMeIn, password management firm LastPass plans to grow its business by providing faster feature updates...Windows 10 Disk Check is an intuitive tool that can scan and repair hard drives to reduce the risk of total disk failure and loss...Follow these guidelines to help craft a strategy for cloud migration testing, from key tests to run to common challenges and best...Google, AWS and Azure offer machine learning certifications for the cloud that can further your career. Learn what to expect from...Many of AWS' re:Invent announcements highlighted enhancements to existing products, rather than new services. Here's why the ...An online marketplace built with an ‘accessibility-first’ mantra is set to go live in spring 2022 – and it comes amid several new...The ease of use and increased availability of buy now, pay later schemes masks the risks, says consumer protection championChip giant uses CES 2022 to display automotive solutions supported by its Snapdragon portfolio to support automakers in meeting ...All Rights Reserved, 
			Copyright 2000 - 2022, TechTarget
			
				
					Privacy Policy
				
                
				
					Cookie Preferences 
                    
				
				
					Do Not Sell My Personal Info
				