Supervised learningSupervised learning, as the name indicates, has the presence of a supervisor as a teacher. Basically supervised learning is when we teach or train the machine using data that is well labeled. Which means some data is already tagged with the correct answer. After that, the machine is provided with a new set of examples(data) so that the supervised learning algorithm analyses the training data(set of training examples) and produces a correct outcome from labeled data. For instance, suppose you are given a basket filled with different kinds of fruits. Now the first step is to train the machine with all different fruits one by one like this:   Now suppose after training the data, you have given a new separate fruit, say Banana from the basket, and asked to identify it.  Since the machine has already learned the things from previous data and this time has to use it wisely. It will first classify the fruit with its shape and color and would confirm the fruit name as BANANA and put it in the Banana category. Thus the machine learns the things from training data(basket containing fruits) and then applies the knowledge to test data(new fruit). Supervised learning is classified into two categories of algorithms:  Supervised learning deals with or learns with “labeled” data. This implies that some data is already tagged with the correct answer.Types:-Advantages:-Disadvantages:-Steps Unsupervised learningUnsupervised learning is the training of a machine using information that is neither classified nor labeled and allowing the algorithm to act on that information without guidance. Here the task of the machine is to group unsorted information according to similarities, patterns, and differences without any prior training of data. Unlike supervised learning, no teacher is provided that means no training will be given to the machine. Therefore the machine is restricted to find the hidden structure in unlabeled data by itself. For instance, suppose it is given an image having both dogs and cats which it has never seen.  Thus the machine has no idea about the features of dogs and cats so we can’t categorize it as ‘dogs and cats ‘. But it can categorize them according to their similarities, patterns, and differences, i.e., we can easily categorize the above picture into two parts. The first may contain all pics having dogs in them and the second part may contain all pics having cats in them. Here you didn’t learn anything before, which means no training data or examples.  It allows the model to work on its own to discover patterns and information that was previously undetected. It mainly deals with unlabelled data.Unsupervised learning is classified into two categories of algorithms:  Types of Unsupervised Learning:-ClusteringClustering Types:-Supervised vs. Unsupervised Machine LearningThis article is contributed by Shubham Bansal. If you like GeeksforGeeks and would like to contribute, you can also write an article using write.geeksforgeeks.org or mail your article to contribute@geeksforgeeksorg. See your article appearing on the GeeksforGeeks main page and help other Geeks. Writing code in comment?
Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org,
generate link and share the link here.