https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/ml-machine-learning/
Arthur Samuel, a pioneer in the field of artificial intelligence and computer gaming, coined the term “Machine Learning”. He defined machine learning as – “Field of study that gives computers the capability to learn without being explicitly programmed”.In a very layman manner, Machine Learning(ML) can be explained as automating and improving the learning process of computers based on their experiences without being actually programmed i.e. without any human assistance. The process starts with feeding good quality data and then training our machines(computers) by building machine learning models using the data and different algorithms. The choice of algorithms depends on what type of data do we have and what kind of task we are trying to automate. Example: Training of students during exam.While preparing for the exams students don’t actually cram the subject but try to learn it with complete understanding. Before the examination, they feed their machine(brain) with a good amount of high-quality data (questions and answers from different books or teachers notes or online video lectures). Actually, they are training their brain with input as well as output i.e. what kind of approach or logic do they have to solve a different kind of questions. Each time they solve practice test papers and find the performance (accuracy /score) by comparing answers with answer key given, Gradually, the performance keeps on increasing, gaining more confidence with the adopted approach. That’s how actually models are built, train machine with data (both inputs and outputs are given to model) and when the time comes test on data (with input only) and achieves our model scores by comparing its answer with the actual output which has not been fed while training. Researchers are working with assiduous efforts to improve algorithms, techniques so that these models perform even much better.Basic Difference in ML and Traditional Programming? What does exactly learning means for a computer?A computer is said to be learning from Experiences with respect to some class of Tasks, if its performance in a given Task improves with the Experience.A computer program is said to learn from experience E with respect to some class of tasks T and performance measure P, if its performance at tasks in T, as measured by P, improves with experience EExample: playing checkers.E = the experience of playing many games of checkersT = the task of playing checkers.P = the probability that the program will win the next gameIn general, any machine learning problem can be assigned to one of two broad classifications:Supervised learning and Unsupervised learning.How things work in reality:-   How ML works? Pre-requisites to learn ML:Writing code in comment?
Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org,
generate link and share the link here.