When it comes to exponential technologies there are few 
people in the world more informed than Dr. Peter H. 
Diamandis, earning degrees in molecular genetics and 
aerospace engineering from MIT and a Harvard-trained 
medical doctor who co-founded, XPRIZE, BOLD Capital 
Partners, and more than two-dozen companies operating at 
the leading edge of technology & longevity. He also 
runs Abundance 360 (A360), a tightly-curated, by-
application-only community of 360 technology executives 
where he teaches exponential entrepreneurship and invites 
the most outstanding leading technology executives to share 
the latest advances in the fields of AI, computing, energy, 
transportation, retail, gaming, healthcare, and longevity. 
The Abundance 360 members & the high profile XPRIZE 
board that Diamandis has cultivated take an active part in 
this community, tackle new challenges with XPRIZE, go on 
trips to the most tightly-controlled labs, centers for disease 
& aging as well as obtain courtside access to the latest 
technologies that most aren’t even aware of yet. Why does 
Diamandis spend so much time with those in his 
community? Diamandis is here to inspire, guide and 
transform the way these executives think in order to get the 
motivation, energy to create their massively transformative 
purpose in life and become moonshot thinkers. In fact, I was 
invited to give a talk at Abundance 360 and present the 
work to a group of about 360 people who you usually see on 
the covers of technology magazines. I had a chance to hear 
about the employee longevity programs at the Beijing 
Genomics Institute, new approaches to developing 
blockbuster promotional videos at Riot Games and got KDA’ 
“Popstars” on my playlist (since then they got over 300 
million views on Youtube), and even learned a few new 
things in artificial intelligence.  
To make this knowledge available to a broader audience, 
approximately every five years Diamandis publishes a book. 
These books quickly make it to the bookshelves of 
technology luminaries and business leaders and 
become New York Times bestsellers. And if you liked his 
two other New York Times bestsellers, Abundance and Bold, 
you will certainly be wow’d by The Future is Faster Than 
You Think. But for those who hear about these books for the 
first time, I recommend getting the entire trilogy and 
starting from Abundance. Every one of these books starts 
with a very simple but non-obvious realization - the world is 
substantially better than you think. Every one of us living in 
developed countries has a higher standard of living and 
more entertainment options than the Queen of England 
twenty years ago thanks to technology. The world is more 
peaceful, more connected, never been more at the ready to 
take on new challenges, and fix the problems that we 
complain about today. And it is getting better every year. 
The global poverty rate is on the decline, alternative and 
sustainable sources now supply a substantial amount of our 
energy, there are major advances in oncology as well as 
medicine, and more and more bright minds are joining the 
productive longevity revolution.  
However, humans have evolved to perceive the negative bias 
much stronger than the positive happening around us and 
tend to focus on short-term goals. For millennia, humans 
needed to quickly react to immediate threats, and our bodies 
and minds evolved accordingly. The modern media is using 
this evolutionary trait at large feeding us a constant stream 
of dramatic current events in the battle for our attention. If 
there are 100 pieces of news and only 1 of them is negative, 
the news-driven society that we live in tends to pay most 
attention to and focus on the negative. And since almost 
every news agency has access to almost the same 
information at the exact same millisecond, they compete for 
the most dramatic interpretation of the negative at hand. 
Like Abundance and Bold, The Future Is Faster Than You 
Think explains how to go around this short-term reactionary 
behavior and focus on the positive. 
Similar to Abundance and Bold, The Future Is Faster Than 
You Think covers a very large number of advances in major 
areas of our lives that cannot and should not be ignored; 
however, the central topic of the book is artificial 
intelligence, which glues all of these sections together. It 
also covers the limitations and dangers of AI and other 
technologies but still keeps a positive outlook on the entire 
field.  
Another unique feature of The Future Is Faster Than You 
Think is the way the information is presented. The 
presentation of a technology trend or discovery usually 
starts with some background and problem definition, a brief 
description of how the technology works, provides one or 
two examples of the real-world application of this 
technology and then follows with a thought experiment on 
how and where this technology can be used in the future. 
Some of these thought experiments become thought-
provoking asking the reader to imagine the convergence of 
several of these technologies and the implications on the 
different industries and our daily lives. In other words, this 
book teaches you to imagine, invent, and disrupt. 
