From Google and Amazon to Apple and Microsoft, every major tech company is dedicating resources to breakthroughs in artificial intelligence. Personal assistants like Siri and Alexa have made AI a part of our daily lives. Meanwhile, revolutionary breakthroughs like self-driving cars may not be the norm, but are certainly within reach. As the big guys scramble to infuse their products with artificial intelligence, other companies are hard at work developing their own intelligent technology and services.The AI industry even broke records during the global uncertainty of the COVID-19 pandemic, with artificial intelligence startups raising $33 billion in 2020, according to CB Insights. With investors clamoring and the technology cross-pollinating across countless industries, we've rounded up 45 artificial intelligence companies and AI startups worth keeping an eye on. Industry: Computer Vision, Machine Learning Location: Fully Remote What it does: AI has become a powerful tool, but few businesses have access to its capabilities. Plainsight is ending this trend with its low-code platform, allowing companies to operate more efficiently. Organizations can now activate camera systems, predictive labeling features, and machine learning automation processes. With the resources of Plainsight, collecting visual data and enhancing training models becomes easier than ever.  Industry: Machine Learning, Natural Language Processing Location: Boston, MAWhat it does: Customers expect fast yet personable service, so Interactions provides enhanced customer service with its AI technology. Intelligent Virtual Assistants sift through background noise while picking up on jargon to sustain conversations with customers. If companies want to take their chats to social media, Interactions also offers tools to prioritize messages and suggest responses. Now businesses can stay on top of customer needs with the innovative products of Interactions. Industry: Software, Professional ServicesLocation: Los Angeles, CAWhat it does: Changing a customer’s mind during a heated discussion is not an ideal situation, but Involve AI provides the tools to avoid such a scenario. The company harnesses the power of cutting-edge technology to unify business’ data, craft detailed customer profiles, and alert teams of customers at risk of leaving. This way, organizations can reduce churn with a data-centered approach to customer service.  Industry: Healthtech, Machine LearningLocation: Madison, WI What it does: With many inefficiencies in the healthcare industry, veda is improving patient experiences with NASA-backed intelligence and AI technology. Providers can automate data-related tasks, removing human errors and organizing information quickly. Resolving administrative issues enables healthcare experts to spend less time tracking down records and more time caring for patients. Industry: Machine Learning, Analytics Location: NYCWhat it does: Urbint brings the power of AI and cloud-based technology to various infrastructure projects, allowing companies to anticipate potential dangers and issues that could arise down the road. By mapping out vulnerable and high-risk areas, Urbint keeps workers and communities safer. Organizations can now move forward with confidence knowing all possibilities are accounted for.  Industry: HealthcareLocation: Columbus, OHWhat it does: Simplifying the healthcare system for Medicaid patients has become more imperative than ever, but delivering personalized care is still in the back of providers’ minds. That’s why Circulo Health is teaming up with Olive.ai to provide more high-tech and humane healthcare experiences. Doctors can offer various ways for patients to communicate with them, making regular updates, health tracking, and virtual visits much more convenient for all parties involved. Industry: Automotive + InsuranceLocation: Chicago, ILWhat it does: CCC accelerates transformation across the automotive and insurance industries by utilizing cloud technology to create innovative AI, IoT and workflow solutions. From utilizing AI and IoT to power better decision making at scale through collecting car data, claims, photos, videos and more from hundreds of actionable data points per day, CCC’s technology makes it possible for companies to accelerate innovation and deliver better customer experiences every day. Industry: Big DataLocation: Costa Mesa, CAWhat it does: Veritone’s goal is to make the world more vibrant and transparent by allowing organizations to discover more clarity and bring deeper insights into their decision making process. The company has created a proprietary Operating System designed for artificial intelligence, Veritone aWARE, making sifting through massive quantities of data both scalable and actionable — perfect for industries as wide-ranging as energy and entertainment. Industry: SoftwareLocation: New York, NYWhat it does: LogicMonitor operates a fully automated, cloud-based infrastructure monitoring platform that provides enterprise IT and managed service providers with full-stack visibility into networks, clouds, servers and more within a single, unified dashboard. The monitoring platform is designed to add next-to-no lift to existing IT infrastructure and is designed with rigorous third-party security protocols to support seamless scalability, making LogicMonitor an excellent choice for enterprises of various sizes. Industry: E-commerceLocation: New York, NYWhat it does: Nate operates an AI-powered app that incorporates the best products from websites across the internet and makes them available for purchase all in one convenient location. The nate app allows users to consolidate their favorite items into lists on their nate dashboard and simply click a button to purchase while the AI handles all checkout and shipping steps on its own. Users can even split payments on items purchased through nate into four installments for easier payments on the things they want most. Industry: SoftwareLocation: San Francisco, CAWhat it does: People.ai provides enterprises with a revenue operations and intelligence platform that transforms business activity data into crucial insights for sales, marketing and operations teams. Powered by cutting-edge AI-based automation and user-friendly workflows, People.ai’s platform helps facilitate decision-making across the enterprise without weighing teams down with extraneous processes. Industry: E-commerceLocation: New York, NYWhat they do: Riskified is an AI powered platform that allows e-commerce sites to better identify legitimate shoppers and reduces the friction in the purchasing process to create a better customer experience. The company’s scalable solution adapts to meet evolving needs as e-commerce shops release new products and enter new markets, with Riskified’s machine learning models pulling from more than one billion past transactions to make instant decisions that stop e-commerce fraud attacks before they occur.  Industry: Information Technology Location: Mountain View, CAWhat it does: Moveworks offers a customer service interface that utilizes artificial intelligence and deep learning systems to help resolve customer IT support issues. Built on a framework of NLU and collective learning capabilities, Moveworks’ cloud-based platform allows organizations from startups to Fortune 500 companies to better serve employee needs in real time and reduce the strain of modern IT professionals Industry: Productivity, WritingLocation: San Francisco, CAWhat it does: Grammarly is an AI-enabled writing assistant that helps writers and communicators all over the world with spelling, grammar and conciseness. The browser plugin checks over content being written in real-time and alerts for everything from spelling mistakes to tone errors and even scans content for plagiarism. Grammarly works across multiple platforms, including Gmail, Slack, Jira, Medium and many more. Industry: FintechLocation: New York, NYWhat it does: AlphaSense is an AI-powered search engine designed to help investment firms, banks and Fortune 500 companies find important information within transcripts, filings, news and research. The technology uses artificial intelligence to expand keyword searches for relevant content. Industry: Healthtech, Biotech, Big DataLocation: Chicago, ILWhat it does: Tempus uses AI to gather and analyze massive pools of medical and clinical data at scale. The company, with the assistance of AI, provides precision medicine that personalizes and optimizes treatments to each individual’s specific health needs; relying on everything from genetic makeup to past medical history to diagnose and treat. Tempus is currently focusing on using AI to create breakthroughs in cancer research.  Some of the nation's leading AI companies  have hundreds of positions open right now. Industry: RegTech, Fintech, Legal Location: Chicago, ILWhat it does: Ascent is an AI-powered regulatory platform that identifies the regulations a company must comply with and keeps them updated as the rules change. It’s difficult for a person or team to keep track of every single new rule or regulation change in the financial sector. Ascent’s platform saves companies valuable employee time and money by using AI to constantly monitor for rule changes and quickly alert the proper people to any compliance issues. Industry: Big Data, SoftwareLocation: Chicago, ILWhat it does: Narrative Science creates natural language generation (NLG) technology that can translate data into stories. By highlighting only the most relevant and interesting information, businesses can make quicker decisions regardless of the staff's experience with data or analytics. Industry: SoftwareLocation: New York, NYWhat it does: Clarifai is an image recognition platform that helps users organize, curate, filter and search their media. Within the platform, images and videos are tagged, teaching the intelligent technology to learn which objects are displayed in a piece of media. Industry: Big Data, SoftwareLocation: Boston, MAWhat it does: DataRobot provides data scientists with a platform for building and deploying machine learning models. The software helps companies solve challenges by finding the best predictive model for their data. DataRobot's tech is used in healthcare, fintech, insurance, manufacturing and even sports analytics. Industry: Biotech, HealthtechLocation: San Francisco, CAWhat it does: Freenome uses artificial intelligence to conduct innovative cancer screenings and diagnostic tests. Using non-invasive blood tests, the company’s AI technology recognizes disease-associated patterns, providing earlier cancer detection and better treatment options. Industry: Hardware, SoftwareLocation: Santa Clara, CAWhat it does: Nvidia Corporation builds graphics processing units and hardware to power various types of AI-enabled devices. The company's technology is used for everything from robots and self-driving vehicles to intelligent video analytics and smart factories.Industry: Robotics, AutomotiveLocation: Foster City, CaliforniaWhat it does: Zoox is creating advanced mobility solutions to support the needs of urban areas. Building their vehicles from the ground up rather than fitting technology to existing cars, the company currently has self-driving cars all over the San Francisco area.Industry: SoftwareLocation: San Francisco, CAWhat it does: Osaro creates artificial intelligence technology that allows companies with industrial production lines to access high-performance robotic devices. The company’s software includes integrated perception and control capabilities that seamlessly accomplish daily tasks within industrial e-commerce and fulfillment facilities, and the company is working on new ways to grow its software to allow robots to grip and move irregularly shaped objects and make decisions.  Industry: Machine Learning, SoftwareLocation: Boston, MAWhat it does: Neurala is developing "The Neurala Brain," a deep learning neural network software that makes devices like cameras, phones and drones smarter and easier to use. Neurala’s solutions are currently used on more than a million devices. Additionally, companies and organizations like NASA, Huawei, Motorola and the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) are also using the technology.  Industry: Automotive, TransportationLocation: Boston, MAWhat it does: With a mission to provide safe efficient driverless vehicles, nuTonomy is developing software that powers autonomous vehicles in cities around the world. The company uses AI to combine mapping, perception, motion planning, control and decision making into software designed to eliminate driver-error accidents. RELATED ARTICLES20 examples of artificial intelligence shaking up business as usualHow AI is changing the banking and finance industriesThe robots will see you now: How artificial intelligence is revolutionizing healthcare Industry: Adtech, SoftwareLocation: New York, NYWhat it does: Persado is a marketing language cloud that uses AI-generated language to craft advertising for targeted audiences. With functionality across all channels, Persado helps businesses increase acquisitions, boost retention and build better relationships with their customers. Industry: Software, CloudLocation: Austin, TXWhat it does: CognitiveScale builds augmented intelligence for the healthcare, insurance, financial services and digital commerce industries. Its technology helps businesses increase customer acquisition and engagement, while improving processes like billing and claims. CognitiveScale’s products are used by such heavy hitters as P&G, Exxon, JP Morgan & Chase, Macy’s and NBC. Industry: RoboticsLocation: Pleasanton, CAWhat it does: AEye builds the vision algorithms, software and hardware that ultimately become the eyes of autonomous vehicles. Its LiDAR technology focuses on the most important information in a vehicle’s sightline such as people, other cars and animals, while putting less emphasis on things like the sky, buildings and surrounding vegetation. Industry: Machine Learning, RoboticsLocation: Menlo Park, CAWhat it does: AIBrain is working to create fully autonomous artificial intelligence. By fusing problem solving, learning and memory technologies together, the company can build systems that learn and adapt without human assistance. Industry: Agriculture, Robotics, SoftwareLocation: Sunnyvale, CAWhat it does: Blue River Tech combines artificial intelligence and computer vision to build smarter farm tech. The company’s See & Spray machine learning technology, for example, can detect individual plants and apply herbicide to the weeds only. The solution not only prevents herbicide-resistant weeds but reduces 90% of the chemicals currently sprayed.   Industry: SoftwareLocation: Oakland, CAWhat it does: Vidado can pull data from virtually any channel, including handwritten documents, dramatically increasing paper to digital workflow speeds and accuracy. The cloud-based platform is utilized by leading organizations and companies like New York Life, the FDA, Metlife and MassMutual. Industry: Legal, SoftwareLocation: San Francisco, CAWhat it does: Casetext is an AI-powered legal search engine with a database of more than 10 million statutes, cases and regulations. Called CARA A.I., the company's tech can search within the language, jurisdiction and citations of a user's uploaded documents and return relevant searches from the database. Industry: Cloud, RoboticsLocation: Santa Clara, CAWhat it does: CloudMinds provides cloud robot services for the finance, healthcare, manufacturing, power utilities, public sector and enterprise mobility industries. Its cloud-based AI uses advanced algorithms, large-scale neural networks and training data to make smarter robots for image and object recognition, natural language processing, speech recognition and more. Industry: Big Data, SoftwareLocation: Mountain View, CAWhat it does: H2O.ai is the creator of H2O, an open source platform for data science and machine learning that is utilized by thousands of organizations worldwide. H2O.ai supplies companies in a variety of industries predictive analytics and machine learning tools that aide in solving critical business challenges. Industry: BiotechLocation: Bethesda, MDWhat it does: Insilico Medicine is using artificial intelligence for anti-aging and drug discovery research. The company's drug discovery engine contains millions of samples for finding disease identifiers. Insilico is used by academic institutions, pharmaceutical and cosmetic companies. Industry: Software, AutomotiveLocation: Palo Alto, CAWhat it does: Nauto builds autonomous mobility software to create smarter commercial fleets and safer drivers. The smart technology detects distracted driving, coaches drivers on safety and alerts them to risks ahead. Industry: SoftwareLocation: Spokane Valley, WAWhat it does: Next IT, now part of Verint, is developing conversational AI that answers complex questions for businesses and enhances customer experiences. From financial and insurance needs to travel and healthcare, the intelligent products perform duties and answer questions for tech support, billing, scheduling, purchases and policy information. Industry: Big Data, SoftwareLocation: Mountain View, CAWhat it does: Orbital Insight uses geospatial imagery and artificial intelligence to answer questions and gain insights invisible to the naked eye. Using data from satellites, drones, balloons and other aircrafts, the company can provide insights and forecasts to the agriculture and energy industries that normally wouldn’t be available. Industry: SoftwareLocation: San Francisco, CAWhat it does: OpenAI is a nonprofit research company with a mission to create safe artificial general intelligence (AGI). AGI aims to create machines with general purpose intelligence similar to human beings. With a focus on long-term research and transparency, OpenAI hopes to advance AGI safely and responsibly. The company is sponsored by some of tech's biggest names, such as Amazon, Microsoft, Elon Musk and Reid Hoffman. Industry: IoT, MobileLocation: Redwood City, Calif. (US office)What it does: Sherpa is a virtual personal assistant (VPA) powered by predictive artificial intelligence. The VPA integrates with a user’s entire web of devices, inferring and predicting their needs. Sherpa is constantly learning and analyzing more than 100,000 parameters daily to keep information updated and users organized. Founded in Spain, Sherpa keeps offices in Redwood City, California. Industry: SecurityLocation: San Francisco, CaliforniaWhat it does: Sift provides multiple fraud management services all in one platform. Sift uses thousands of data points from around the web to train in detecting fraud patterns. The technology helps payment processors, marketplaces, e-commerce stores and even social networks prevent fraud. Sift Science is used by leading companies like Zillow, Wayfair, Twitter, Airbnb and Shutterstock. Industry: SoftwareLocation: Santa Clara, CaliforniaWhat it does: SoundHound Inc. is all about audio, providing multiple solutions that utilize voice and conversational intelligence. The company's namesake product lets users  identify songs and answer music-based queries in addition to searching and playing music. Industry: Machine Learning, RoboticsLocation: San Francisco, CaliforniaWhat it does: Vicarious makes artificial general intelligence (AGI) robots modeled on the computational concepts of the human brain. The company, which boasts a mission to eventually create machines that surpass human intelligence, has serious backing from tech titans like Mark Zuckerberg, Jeff Bezos and Elon Musk. Industry: Software, HealthtechLocation: Berkeley, California (US office)What it does: Zebra Medical Vision develops technology for radiology and medical imaging, enhancing the diagnostic abilities of radiologists while maximizing focus on patient care. Zebra works with millions of clinical records and images to create condition-detecting algorithms. These algorithms will ultimately help medical professionals detect high-risk patients earlier and manage growing workloads with more accurate outcomes. Industry: Big Data, BioinformaticsLocation: Emeryville, CaliforniaWhat it does: Zymergen is utilizing machine learning, automation and genomics to accelerate the advancement of science. Spanning the agriculture, pharmaceutical and chemical industry, the company enables faster cultivation of microbes through automation software and a huge catalog of physical and digital DNA data.RelatedRead More About Artificial Intelligence Images via Shutterstock, social media and screenshots of company web pages.