It’s a scenario movies and sci-fi stories have predicted for years: an intelligent fleet of human-serving AI robots become too smart and take over the world. This common storyline has some people worried it will come to real-world fruition — thanks to technological developments in artificial intelligence and robotics. For many others, though, applying intelligence to robotics is all about furthering innovation.And innovation there has been.Robotics dates back to 1898, when Nikola Tesla used radio waves to remotely direct the movement of a robot boat in a miniature man-made pond during an electrical exhibition at Madison Square Garden in New York. That experiment led to Tesla becoming the father of robotics. Roughly 50 years later, British polymath Alan Turing explored the mathematical potential of artificial intelligence. He believed if people could use information and reason to solve problems, why couldn’t computing machinery do the same thing, according to his 1950 paper Computing Machinery and Intelligence. The paper covered ways to build intelligent machines and test them as part of the Turing Test.With robotics on the scene and AI getting a closer look among researchers, scientists and mathematicians, it didn’t take long before the two were combined together to create an AI robot.The Stanford Research Institute (SRI) developed AI robot Shakey during 1966 to 1972. It marked the first mobile robot that could reason about its actions, according to the Computer History Museum.Dawn Kawamoto contributed reporting to this story From making smart consumer products to creating the first human-like artificial brain, the following companies are doing dazzling things with AI robots. Location: Hong Kong, ChinaHow it’s using AI: Hanson Robotics creates AI robots that not only have a human appearance but they also operate with humanlike characteristics. These AI robots have lifelike skin made of Hanson’s proprietary nanotechnology called Frubber and their humanlike features include eye contact, facial recognition, speech and the ability to hold natural conversations. The robots can produce high-quality expressions that offer a less mechanical robotic experience. In fact, Hanson’s shining star Sophia not only has graced the covers of Cosmopolitan and Elle but was also granted citizenship in Saudi Arabia in 2017, reports Entrepreneur.Industry impact: Hanson is busy building AI robots beyond Sophia. It also introduced Little Sophia, as well as other AI robots. These robots are used in a range of industries, such as, research, education, healthcare, sales, service and entertainment. Location: South San Francisco, CaliforniaHow it’s using AI: Autonomous aircrafts are play a role in delivering goods to remote locations, where it’s either difficult to get vehicles into the area or its cost prohibitive to attempt the delivery. Elroy Air uses AI in its autonomous vertical take-off and landing (VTOL) cargo aircraft called Chaparral. The AI robot can carry between 300 to 500 pounds over a 300-mile range. Industry Impact: While drones currently make short, last-mile deliveries and carry lightweight products such as groceries or medical supplies, the Chaparral aims to travel much further distances with greater load capacity. Earlier this year, Elroy Air joined NASA’s Advanced Air Mobility Project, which will assess autonomous air taxis and cargo delivery aircraft to review their readiness for sharing airspace with manned aircraft. Location: Pasadena, CaliforniaHow it’s using AI: Miso Robotics creates AI robots for use in commercial kitchens. Its cooking robot, Flippy, boasts 3D and thermal vision that enables it to learn from its surroundings and acquire new skills. Robot use in kitchens reportedly decreases food waste and frees up time for human workers to prepare food or help customers.  Industry impact: The Los Angeles Dodgers use Flippy in their stadium kitchens to help cook and serve chicken tenders. The White Castle hamburger chain uses Flippy in the greater Chicago area and later plans to expand its use to additional locations. Meanwhile, Miso launched Flippy 2 in November, noting it can work an entire fry station and can perform more than twice as many food prep tasks as the original Flippy.More on AIThe Future of AI: How Artificial Intelligence Will Change the World Location: Boston, MassachusettsHow it’s using AI: Perceptive Automata uses machine learning to help autonomous vehicles with one of the most important parts of their jobs- predicting human behavior. Most autonomous vehicles are currently rigid in their driving capabilities, meaning that they drive conservatively and sometimes counterintuitively to human behavior. Perceptive Automata’s AI robot technology is constantly teaching autonomous vehicles about human behavior and showing cars how to operate safely in a human driver-dominated world. Location: Boston, MassachusettsHow it’s using AI: Piaggio Fast Forward’s AI robot acts as an extra set of hands. Are your groceries too heavy? Maybe you just can’t carry all your workout gear? Piaggio’s Gita robot uses AI to follow its owner close behind, acting as a versatile, hands-free carrier. Location: New York, New YorkHow it’s using AI: UiPath’s Robotic Process Automation software instills AI into robots that help them perform repetitive tasks more efficiently and learn while they go. The unicorn’s AI robot software is helping robots — from retail to manufacturing — speed up tasks in an environment where they no longer have to be supervised by humans. Location: San Francisco, CaliforniaHow it’s using AI: Cruise combines AI with machine learning and robotics to create their line of self-driving, autonomous cars. The company uses AI throughout the planning, simulation and infrastructure of the car in order to ensure that the AI robots can see the world around them in real-time and react safely. The company received a setback earlier this month, when the City of San Francisco opposed its robotaxi application for a paid commercial service, Reuters reported. Location: San Diego, CaliforniaHow it’s using AI: Brain Corp’s proprietary technology makes AI robots adaptable and flexible so they can navigate unstructured environments like warehouses and store floors. The robots also have mapping, routing, surface anomaly detection, object avoidance and cloud-based data capture capabilities. The company hit a milestone in November, when its BrainOS-powered fleet of autonomous mobile robots covered 100 billion square feet of cleaning and other tasks.Industry impact: EMMA (Enabling Mobile Machine Automation), a Brain Corp robot was tested in Walmart stores for after-hour floor cleaning. More on AI44 Artificial Intelligence Companies to Watch in 2021 Location: San Francisco, CaliforniaHow it’s using AI: Starship creates autonomous robots that help to deliver items within a four-mile radius. These AI robots are able to take items like groceries, food delivery orders or even retail store orders and deliver them to customers using AI to navigate their route along the way. Starship is expanding its robot food delivery service on college campuses, adding South Dakota State University to the mix, it announced in November. Location: Boston, MassachusettsHow it’s using AI: Neurala created “The Neurala Brain,” AI software that makes an array of devices more intelligent. Already integrated in more than nine million devices, the technology boosts intelligence in cars, phones, drones and cameras. It’s also used by major organizations like NASA, DARPA, Motorola and NVIDIA.Industry impact: Neurala solutions are designed to make AI robot drones smarter. Future uses include identifying early signs of corrosion in large equipment like wind turbines and curbing elephant poaching by deciphering between hunter and hunted. Location: Boston, MassachusettsHow it’s using AI: Sea Machines creates autonomous technology for the marine and maritime industry. The company’s technology connects a vessel’s machinery with navigation sensors for autonomous or remote control. The system acts as a data recorder while enabling remote missions or typical workboat routing tasks.Industry impact: Sea Machines achieved a world record in October, navigating an AI robot commercial vessel at sea for more than 1,000 nautical miles via remote and autonomous command. It took 129 operational hours over 13 days to set the record.RelatedRead More About Robotics Location: Waltham, MassachusettsHow it’s using AI: Veo Robotics creates industrial robots with 3D sensing, AI and computer vision capabilities that enhance manufacturing operations. Robots work alongside humans to make workplaces more flexible and efficient.Industry impact: Industrial robots typically are separated from human workers for safety reasons, but Veo’s AI robots use 3D sensors to detect  objects or people nearby and, if necessary, slow or stop. The robots are used on car assembly lines to handle heavy-lifting while human coworkers perform more delicate tasks.